# Crafting-Recipes
Problem #19 from HP CodeWars 2016 - Crafting Recipes
Please make sure that you have read the pdf found in this repo which described the problem before reading this file. Looking at the code while reading this will make this make more sense. 
My first thought/attempt at this problem was to store the data using an ArrayList of ArrayLists of String Arrays. 
This obviously doesn't work. Trying to set up the object was a nightmare, not even talking about getting the data out of that mess.
I then decided to use an Array of Arraylists of Strings. This worked well in terms of having each line stored in a convenient manner.
After getting the data stored I tried to come up with a way to use the contents of the recipe to call the recipe of the items in the recipe. This was a flawed viewpoint, because the only way to use the name as a parameter to get a number(that I knew of at the time), was arraylists, but I already knew that that wouldn't work. I asked my teacher for ideas, and she suggested a map. I found some information on maps online, and decided to use a treemap over a hashmap, because I was going to be adding and removing pairs to and from the map more than I would be accessing pairs. I made the map using String, Integer pairs so that I can have the name of the item and then the quantity of the item in that order. Having never used a map before made this a good learning experience.
I created a method named addToMap(String item) which would add the components found in the recipe of the item specified to the treemap. I set this method up so that there will not two pairs with the same name, but rather the amount of each component will be retained, and then increased based on the call. This method cannot be used when adding the recipe of the original item to the map. 
I then wanted to use the equivalent of a for each loop, except with the Map. I did some learning and asking, and found out that I need an iterator. Having never used iterators before, this was an interesting experience. I first set it up using a normal iterator to get the buffer, and then use that to add each key(item) that hadn’t been removed yet to the map, with the removal condition being that the quantity(value) of the item(key) was 0. This of course gave me concurrent exceptions, because I couldn’t use the buffer to edit the map. I did some more research and found out that you have to use list iterators to edit the map while iterating. I first thought that I would have to rewrite a large portion of my code to accommodate list iterators, since list iterators can only be generated with an arraylist, but I realized that I could just use the buffer from the original iterator to make an arraylist of keys, and then use that arraylist to create a list iterator, and then use that list iterator to do that same thing that I was originally trying to do with the iterator. This ended up working, and the program ended up running beautifully. 
As the program runs, you can see how the program breaks up each part of the recipe into its components over and over again. 

Over the course of writing this program, I learned about Maps, Iterators, and List Iterators. This was a fun project that taught me a lot about data storage and retrieval. This program was made in Java. 

Thanks for checking out my program.
Please send any feedback or comments to daubdragon@gmail.com
